hey everyone welcome to the smart
economy podcast a production of
neonewstoday.com
i'm your host dylan grabowski one of our
goals with the recently launched smart
economy podcast is to offer series that
are dedicated to major topics and trends
and interview builders from across the
blockchain industry the inaugural series
was focused on dows and the next will
hone in on decentralized finance better
known as defy for the d5 series we're
interviewing some of the most
interesting projects that are building
within and across blockchain ecosystems
today the d5 series will feature
representatives from the lyrebird
algorithmic stablecoin project the elk
finance cross chain bridging as a
service provider the saffron finance
risk tranche and insurance lp platform
and the flamingo finance swapping and
staking platform
each of these interviews brought a fresh
and unique perspective to the various
facets that comprise defy so i hope you
gain as much insight from these
conversations as i did
in the first episode of the d5 series i
chat with william song founder of
lyrebird firebird is an algorithmic
stablecoin project that was born out of
the frontier launch pad event in 2021
and launched on neo mainnet in april
2022 the protocol establishes a dollar
pegged token called usdl
and utilizes a stabilization utility
token called lrb
its model was inspired by that of tara's
which recently suffered a quote unquote
death spiral and near depreciation of
its stablecoin and utility token assets
in this conversation william and i
discuss the elephant in the room up
front
tara's collapse
and how it changes perception of quote
unquote defending the peg how lyrebird
will adapt and potentially move forward
with a fractionally backed stablecoin
the importance of using yield generating
assets for collateral in the bowerbird
lending protocol using neo's native
oracle network and much more just a
reminder nothing said on this podcast is
a solicitation to buy or sell any tokens
that nothing should be taken as
financial advice
and that the host or guests may hold
tokens discussed in any given episode
with that said i really enjoyed chatting
with william and i hope you enjoy the
conversation too
well thank you for joining the smart
economy podcast william how are you
doing today being well thank you for
asking and thank you for having me here
yeah so you're a returning guest to
the microphone seat the interview seat
but you were on a previous podcast where
we focused mostly on neo the neo news
today podcast and
we had you come on after the last
hackathon the frontier launch pad
hackathon and you had basically designed
the concept for liar bird and you were
going into it so
maybe as just kind of an introduction to
somebody who's never met you or heard of
you or listened to our podcast who are
you what's your project and what has the
time been like since the first hackathon
that you participated in yeah so my name
is william i'm the founder of lyrebird
maybe an easy way to start is if you've
heard of the the terra lunas fiasco
recently
lyrebird is very much the same concept
of
decentralized stablecoin
algorithmicallypeg and i actually did
get the idea from
basically from seeing terra in its
infancy i think when i first found out
about it it was not the huge news that
it is today it was pretty much getting
started and i was actually aware of a
similar project before that called basis
which was also a similar concept it was
a little bit more complicated in terms
of the way that it was set up and
ultimately i think base is folded
because of regulatory concerns and then
there was a revival of it called basis
cash which also had the similar concept
and that actually i don't think it could
maintain its peg but it seemed to me
like terra had kind of the way to do
this in that they very much simplified
the concept in saying there's some kind
of reserve token that holds value and
then there's a stablecoin token and the
idea is that the reserve token can
absorb the volatility of the stablecoin
token by giving you arbitrage
opportunities whenever the stablecoin
token deviates from a desired peg and so
lyrebird follows exactly that model
there's a lyrebird token which is the
reserve token that kind of holds the
value in the economy and then there's
right now there's usdl which is the
lyrebird usd token and so
whenever usbl deviates from its intended
peg there's actually is an arbitrage
opportunity that you can exploit so i
first had this idea around i think it
was a little before the summer of last
year when i saw that frontier hackathon
was being
launched
and what i thought was very good was
that neil had an inbuilt oracle and i
think with other chains this is actually
one of the biggest concerns in that you
don't have something like chain link
that's actually plugged in to your chain
you don't have a way to get data into
your project and so this is one of the
great things about neo which i thought
was that you know someone like me could
just come in and then plug into the
oracle and as long as you have a robust
price feed you could actually implement
this
at least a very simplified version in a
matter of a month and so that's what i
did and i was very lucky that liver did
well in the frontier hackathon and after
that with ngd support i was able to push
the project forward to launch which was
it was during an interesting time i
think when lrv launched things things
look great it was like not cloud lines
and then like okay so we'll see how
stable it is for like two weeks and then
launch usdo and then we launched usdl
and then everything went
downhill from there but yeah so that was
an interesting time
one because
i got so much
real world experience of running the
armature spots then i thought i'd get in
so
that's good because they work but the
other thing is that i think it was early
enough that i think right now we don't
have too much usdl in circulation other
than the genesis i guess nine and a half
million that are gonna be burned at this
point we have about 200 000 that in
circulation which is not a very large
amount and so what this gives us is a
lot of flexibility to really think about
how we should approach this going
forward because i think every
algorithmic stable coin must be thinking
the same thing right now which is
terra had such a big economy at the time
of his collapse
and the whole thing was predicated upon
the fact that if you have enough base
demand and i think one thing actually
that didn't go as they originally said
it would be was that the base demand
wasn't natural economic activity which
is things like payments right one of the
original things that was pissed for
terra was something called chai which is
a payments network and that i think was
completely overshadowed by anchor which
is as you mentioned dylan it's a little
bit more leveraged
and so i think the baseline demand
didn't really exist as much as
they would have liked it to but at the
same time i think at this point since
there was such a large collapse it is
irresponsible for anyone who's running
an algorithmic stable coin to just say
well like we'll try the same thing but
it might be different because we'll do
things better i think really the
fundamental thing is that
now you can't really say if we have
enough base demand this death bar won't
happen and so i think what everyone has
to be thinking about now is given that
the death spiral can happen
we
kind of put in prevent but like i guess
it's a little bit different now since
you can't just say we can try to prevent
the death spiral because everything
seems to be going right until didn't it
and so it's really hard to tell what
that point is going to be
but i think you can say we can assume
that this will happen at some point and
we need to deal with it now
so if it does happen how do we recover i
think that's probably going to be the
question that most people have
because the issue with the death spiral
i don't think is necessarily the initial
dpeg it's that it's a cascading effect
it's kind of like there's a positive
feedback and that if more people sell
out then now your reserve token gets
devalued more and then now you're
panicking more because nothing's backing
your stablecoin tokens and so i think at
least what i'm thinking right now about
is not necessarily how to stop the dpig
in the first place at least from what
i've seen at the moment it seems like it
might not be possible to
always hold the peg but
maybe to think about how to come back
without completely inspiring into
oblivion so those are the
initial thoughts coming out of this
video there's a lot to unpack there and
yeah a lot of uh different threads to
pull i guess
kind of the first thing that kind of
popped into my mind while you were just
brain dumping your experience and what
it's been like for a month old
stablecoin project
that has arguably been around in the
most epic time for stablecoins ever it's
funny that
purportedly
dokwan had a an alt anan account that
was associated with basis and basis cash
and that
itself did not take off and the founders
were anon whereas
tara
was very much dokwan in the public space
like it or not he was out there trolling
people sometimes sometimes being brash
in the way he answered
but that protocol ended up being worth
tens of billions of dollars and this was
from a non-aenon founder right now you
yourself are doxxed
i think you have put in a lot of care
into making sure that everything is done
all eyes are dotted t's are crossed and
everything's done in a regulatory
compliant manner so what's your
perspective on a stablecoin project and
its founder being anon versus being
doxxed and is there any sort of
relationship between the two towards the
viable success of the project that's an
interesting question i haven't really
thought about it i think there is
some level of personal responsibility
that comes with being
because
i think what everyone thinks of when
well what a lot of people think of in
crypto is you put your money into this
dog token whatever and then you know the
founder just pulls liquidity and then
takes off with their money and so that's
a lot harder if you're dogs but stable
coins i think or at least in this
particular case i actually
don't know if it would have made too
much of a difference
because
i guess the belief is really more of
like how protocol works rather than the
founder
himself or herself and
even right now i think if you look at
the proposals that are coming the
founders actually not coming to the
rescue by trying to rally funds or using
own personal funds it's really just well
like we'll work it and then we'll see
what happens from there
i think what maybe makes more of a
difference is kind of how things are
presented and how things are advertised
because i think one of the issues was
that anchor i think i don't know if
they'd really hold itself a savings
protocol or a lending protocol but i
think the tagline was better savings
and this is actually where i think maybe
some kind of regulatory oversight is
necessary because if a regular person
sees better savings 20 interest they're
not gonna think you know what like
there's this death file that could
happen and then your twenty percent
could go to zero
twenty percent of zero is still here
already
and so
maybe it's kind of going a little bit
off topic from the original question but
yeah i think
i think the docs part helps with people
being maybe less rash maybe not in this
case but generally because you know that
there's personal responsibility that you
have to have for the project but i think
in general it's i think one of the more
important things is that you have to
make it clear to the people who are
getting involved that there is a risk
that you may not be aware of like even
the founder may not be aware of because
this is a very new space
and that you can't really guarantee
things like you can say we think this
should work but there's no guarantee
that it'll work and
the biggest issue is that once a lot of
retail people start getting involved
they might not know this and that's
probably where a lot of the damage comes
in because
if you've been in this space for a long
time and you know what the risks are
like you probably don't put in
everything and you probably have some
kind of something in your head that says
okay 20 like this is not sustainable
whereas now if it's going mainstream and
you're just hearing about this it just
seems like oh it's a programmable money
like i can make more money from this
and i think that's really where people
have to be careful yeah i mean even
being a quote unquote crypto veteran now
after
being a part of the class of 2017 and
having watched even stable coins on neo
popped up in in fall i don't want to
name any names but lyrebird isn't the
first stable coin on neo
you know you kind of i kind of had an
understanding of what the issues may or
may not be
but it just seemed like tara was working
it just seemed like everything was going
so great so
i know that this is uh very
early early days we still don't even
have the whole picture for a total
comprehensive postmortem but what are
maybe some things that you saw arise
that might have started causing red
flags like for instance
in the time since i've heard theories
that ust being on multiple chains
made it so that people could liquidate
on other chains and it wasn't the terra
chain burning the ust and minting luna
so you weren't redeeming on the terror
chain i've also heard theories around
lfg's purchase of bitcoin
made this potential attack possible
because there were two markets to
manipulate at this point then there's
just also regular
risk associated with an algo stable coin
that just might depend on its own
despite the fact that everything was
working so well up until it wasn't on
tara so maybe what are
just your early
perceptions of lessons that can be
learned
and maybe applied to lyrebird in its
infancy yeah so
full disclosure this is personal opinion
not financial advice and also i may not
be the the most educated person on this
topic i think one of the things that was
an issue was i think promising 20
returns
and this is pretty
different from most other protocols in
which even if you have a stable yield
the stable yield actually i think ave
has a stable yield but that's usually
lower than the variable yield and it
also rebalances over time so it actually
is based on the amount of borrowing
that's done and so that i think is a
much more sustainable model because with
anchor you know that it's being propped
up essentially by vc funds and so
it's kind of like a game of musical
chairs in which the chairs keep
disappearing and at that point you know
that people are probably going to be
exiting usd because one of the biggest
reasons why usd was so successful was
because people came for the 20 returns
and so there's always that question of
when you get rid of that and goes to
variable rates
what actually is making the variable
rate so much higher than other protocols
and i think there wasn't anything that
was necessarily making the variable rate
higher than other protocols and so you
always have this in the back of your
mind like at some point people are going
to exit and
that is not going to be gradual it's
going to be at a particular point
because that's when you know either you
go to variable rates or you go to
variable rates and then borrow rate goes
down and then now you're earning next to
nothing on your yields and so that i
think was something that probably could
have been done differently
because that you know like with an
algorithmic stablecoin like ust i think
you have to make sure that things change
gradually rather than all at once
and even if there was i'm assuming this
was an attack but even if it wasn't an
attack
you already have the single point in
which people are going to be running to
exit the stable coin at once another
thing that i think was probably a
misstep was purchasing bitcoin reserves
because if you do purchase bitcoin
reserves you have to over collateralize
because bitcoin is
very highly correlated with every other
asset that you have and so
i think if you do that you kind of have
to follow the die model in which you
make sure that your bitcoin reserves are
let's say like 150 to 200 time or 200 of
the stable coin reserves that you're
trying to back because there is always a
chance
even then it's not 100 safe because if
bitcoin drops like 70 in a day then you
might not be able to back all of your
holdings but yeah here i think it was
multiple times worse because if you try
to use that bitcoin to uphold your peg
now you're selling bitcoin
and so bitcoin crashes more which means
your correlated asset also drops more
and so
yeah i think if they were going to go
down the bitcoin route they had to
ensure like i i think even the
like the original plan if it were like
if it came to fruition they would have
had i think 10 billion dollars worth of
bitcoin backing like 18 billion dollars
of usd which is still not
i super successful
if you've heard of usdd which is the
tron version of exactly the same thing
but it's very funny because i thought
liarbird launched that at that time but
there are two other ones that also
launched at a really bad time one is
usdd which is tron's
exact same thing
except that i think they have like 300
million dollars of usd in circulation
backed by like 10 billion dollars of
tether so they can do the same thing
except they can actually
kind of support the peg all the way down
because you have more usbt then you have
the usdd
and i think usn which is um which one
was this
this is the one that's on mir which i'm
not as familiar with but essentially the
same model they have
algorithm and some kind of large reserve
but yeah i think probably if you wanted
to do things differently your backing
reserve would have to be uncorrelated or
negatively correlated with what you're
trying to protect so
i would have probably done something
like usdc instead
yeah and then i think the other thing
maybe also try to spur organic demand
growth of things like payments which i
think actually was the original plan um
it's just that maybe ink was a little
too successful from
what little information i've gathered
chai was only as successful as its
regional adoption
and i believe it was south korea which
was the only country that
doe and team were able to kind of
get regulatory approval for people to
just pay at
in store places like grocery stores and
haircuts and
just like in good services and in a
podcast i was listening to maybe six
months ago he was just basically saying
like
at that point you have to have an entire
legal department for each country you go
into because it's a totally different
beast and that's how they kind of like
shifted to ust and then providing
services on anchor
and what i kind of thought was
supposed to be the beauty of the terra
ecosystem is that you're going to have
all these additional protocols building
on top of it like mars protocol
and whale protocol to ensure the peg was
kept so you were going to have all these
derivatives that were building on top of
it and it was going to kind of like spur
this flywheel that once it got off the
ground
then it was going to be like a perpetual
motion machine right which those don't
exist in real world they don't exist in
the crypto world yet but that was kind
of like what i thought the narrative was
supposed to be
so
moving forward is lyrebird gonna be
examining different models of maybe over
collateralization
maybe even taking the approach that dye
does which is holding portions of
another stable coin and its treasury
what are some
potential areas that
uh an algorithmic stablecoin
might look forward to now for other
forms of something that backs it whether
it's algo collateral real world assets
what does this look like yeah so this is
basically what i've been thinking about
the most over the past week maybe to
give a little bit of context i'll start
with something called the coin trilemma
which is basically there are kind of
three things that you want to achieve
with a stablecoin and generally you can
only achieve two of them the three
things are decentralization take
stability and capital efficiency so if
you have decentralization and peg
stability you have something like dye in
which
you have over collateralization
and so it's not capital efficient but as
we've seen dye held the spec very well
over a week
for that as well
if you have decentralization
and capital efficiency then you have
algorithmic coins like ust
and here this is very obvious that the
peg stability is missing
and then you have
x ability and capital efficiency
which is a lot of the coins that we're
familiar with like tether and usdc
and so there i think you get kind of
one-to-one capital efficiency but i
guess if you really want
decentralization you can't have it in
this in this world there's actually
something that's a little bit like
cross between i guess um centralized and
algorithmic called fractional reserve
and so this is the one that i've been
looking into the most the one that's
most successful is called frax the one
that's the least successful is called
iron which supposedly i think iron kind
of forked the code base of rex and then
did a lot of other things wrong i think
the one main issue that they had was
that their oracle prices updated very
very slowly i think it was maybe a time
weighted average over the past 15
minutes or so and so
basically with these fractional reserve
coins
you essentially say you can set the
fractional reserve ratio let's say the
collateralization ratio seventy-five
percent that means if you want to mint a
dollar let's say one franc is one dollar
you want to mint one frax you put in 25
cents of like some other token and then
you put in 75 cents worth of let's say
usdc
and so you always know that 75 of your
capital is backed by a centralized coin
this is exactly the same for iron except
i think the issue was that you could
keep redeeming and then buying and
selling and keep doing that cycle
because your oracle price is always
going to be higher than the price that
we're going to buy at
so that was an issue for iron but for
frax i think things are very interesting
right now i think there's no real way
that it can lose its tag partially
because they have so much liquidity on
curve because i think i think they
actually have more liquidity on curve
than is a kind of outstanding free float
and so even if you were to take 100 of
the outstanding flow you actually
couldn't move it by even more than a
penny
but one thing that i was thinking about
is to kind of modify this idea because
let's say you want to prevent the death
spiral i don't actually think fractional
reserve prevents this i think it
slows things down
because instead of saying
here's ust it's backed by luna if luna
goes to zero you're kind of screwed
what you're saying is
here's frax it's backed by let's say 75
usdc and 25 frac shares fractions goes
to zero you have 75 cents so it's a much
better proposition because
you don't end up with zero you still
have 75 cents but i think if you look at
the human psychology it's kind of if
you're panicking you're panicking
because i think it's it still kind of
applies because let's say fax shares
right now
will give you 20 cents instead of 25
cents but everyone else is panicking so
you think if i act 5 minutes from now
it's going to give me 15 cents and then
if i have tomorrow it's gonna give me
five cents and so there i think if you
do expand enough you still have the same
problem it's just dampened and so
something that i've been thinking about
is
what happens if you kind of give up on
defending the peg right away this is
kind of
in a way i think it's kind of like
providing liquidity to liquidity pools
like flamingo
in which you can have impermanent loss
in that if something moves
let's say one coin goes up a lot and the
other goes down a lot
you have impermanent loss but
let's say
if you put in enough incentives for it
to come back to the equilibrium if you
don't panic and take out right now
and you kind of have this hope that it
can come back then you actually don't
have to make that loss permanent and so
the idea here is
let's say you have a collateralization
ratio let's say it's 50
and so
whenever someone converts let's say
a dollars worth of lrb into usdl you
meant
one dollar of usdl but then
now you go out and purchase 50 cents for
it though let's say like right now i
think really
in the ecosystem the only option is
wrapped usdp but i think flamingo's
working on getting other centralized
stable coins on board so then what
happens is you have this reserve let's
say if you have 100
outstanding of usdl then you also know
that the library smart contracts have
fifty dollars of let's say usdp the
packet what i wanted to experiment with
is instead of saying
every redemption gives you 50 cents of
lrb and 50 cents worth of
usdt
the first
fifty dollars that we deem only get lrb
but the last fifty dollars you can
actually redeem one for one with tether
and so the idea here is that you're
still relying on the algorithmic pegging
for the initial descent and so i think
in a market crash you you're basically
giving up the peg i think it probably
shouldn't go below 50 cents in that case
because if someone sees that it's 50
back and it's trading at 30 cents
expected value says that you know if you
buy this up and then if something
happens and you could probably be sense
worth the value but i think the
what i'm trying to do is make sure that
right now if you have a death spiral the
later you
sell the worse it is because you think
that lrb is going to devalue more and
more but here i'm trying to make sure
that it's kind of a reversing point in
which if people do that and then
suddenly the the supply of usdl becomes
half of what it is now you can actually
redeem for the full dollar and so it
reverses it and so
for that to happen i think you probably
will have maybe even a prolonged period
in which u.s deals trading below a
dollar but what i want to make sure is
that at some point people know that
there's a mechanism that kicks in that
if they don't sell right now they could
get their full dollar back and so if
that stops the selling then that
actually could give the protocol a
chance to recover and of course i don't
think this guarantees that it'll recover
um i think
there could be
a corner case of a steady state where
you're kind of stuck in between like
you're not yet at a dollar but you're
also not at 50 cents this still has to
be worked out but
it's generally the direction that i'm
looking at because for me i think the
allure of stable coins algorithmic
stable coins is really the capital
efficiency aspect i think
that's one of the things that usd did
very very well which is if you have
capital coming into the system
you want to make sure that you can
distribute that well
and
i think usc did that extremely well and
then kind of going out the other way
didn't work so well
of course this
kind of gets rid of the decentralization
aspect because the protocol itself can
be decentralized but i guess your
reserves are still centralized in a way
but that's kind of the thought at the
moment yeah i mean
it almost seems like centralized
reserves would have saved that weren't
bitcoin would have saved a lot of
headaches for terror users ust holders
a lot of people held on to the end
and i mean you've spoke about this since
day one that it's the faith and the
protocol being able to survive is what
actually makes it survive so
once you lose that kind of mental
fortitude and faith in the protocol then
it's like sugar going into water it'll
just disappear right because there's
nothing holding it up anymore so
it's kind of interesting that you
launched during this time you said
you've probably i would venture to guess
you've probably got a year's experience
in the past month with your arbitrage
bot and seeing just everything start to
work together
so despite the fact that the room was on
fire and we were the dog drinking coffee
saying everything is fine what are some
of the lessons you've learned from the
month that lyrebird's been live because
you have been
building this out for two almost three
quarters and then you launched it so a
lot of thought went into this a lot of
mental exercises
what has
played out how do you think the protocol
has fared well during times of stress
what are just some lessons learned in
the first month despite the fact that
this probably wouldn't have been
repeatable in any other timeframe that
you launched one of the first ones
actually was that if you tell the
community what's going on they're very
supportive because we did run into a
couple of issues there was a time when
oracle calls weren't working for a
little bit we also had a little bit of
downtime on our
backend servers those are distributed
now across two regions but
if you just tell them like hey we're
having issues really sorry people aren't
going to come at you and say
why did i invest in this you lied to me
a lot of them will just say like thank
you for letting me know and then just
kind of keep watching another thing i
would say is that it's especially in
cryptocurrencies i think a lot of people
want explosive growth uh like they want
two thousand percent returns right away
but i think one of the things that's
really helping us right now is that even
from the beginning we are planning on
kind of ramping up slowly to make sure
that we have the time to make sure that
things are right
and that was very helpful
because
when we launched when we did it was much
larger i think we actually would have
had a lot of problems trying to defend
the pipes because we didn't have so much
liquidity at the time
and so
trying to be a little more
maybe not slow but more deliberate in
terms of how you intend to grow that i
think was it wasn't necessarily
something that we planned for this but
it ended up being very helpful i guess
one more thing this i guess i think we
could have done a little bit more in
terms of gas savings on the protocol
calls like contract goals which we
didn't and
initially i think the thought was that
like these aren't that common operations
so it doesn't really matter so much
but it does seem to add up maybe that's
something that we're gonna look into
going forward it seems to me that at
least uh
the amount of usdl that was released for
the flm usdl pool has doubled in size so
are you surprised are you not surprised
is is it just about as even as you
thought it would be with people creating
usdl
how do you think that demand is growing
do you think it's organic uh what are
your thoughts on that a little bit of
depth pull was like the team funds it's
maybe like
i guess we put in about 30 to 40k it's
like
actual users so it's a little bit lower
than i would have hoped but at the same
time i think
i don't think anyone would really
looking to
put money into pools at that time
because we launched the day of when
basically detecting started like right
now i think it should probably be a
little bit speculative in the sense that
we're working on getting
real life demand for usdl but until you
know that that exists basically you're
kind of just betting that the protocol
will do well and so given that i think
we're very happy with the interest that
people have showed
but i think really it's now on liverpool
to make sure that you kind of show like
this is what we can do like first of all
like one thing that we have to prove is
there's something that a liar bird like
protocol can do better than just a
centralized stablecoin because if there
isn't there's no value proposition if
that's the case you should really be
saying well
let's try to bring in one of the big
central stable points and then call it a
day i do think that there is a lot more
capital efficiency to be had with
algorithmic stable points
and that's primarily why i'm looking at
this fractional reserve method you know
like if you do fractional reserve i
think let's say you do like 50 reserve
then the other half you can actually do
much more efficiently than if you were
to have completely centralized
stablecoin but i do think that the
protocol now needs to prove like this is
why it's useful
also tell them you know you could have
this desk fire thing we think we figured
it out but just keep this in and yeah i
think now it's time for us to really
develop something that brings in a lot
of demand for usdl yeah i'd be curious
to see
what level of adoption a frax-like
mechanism actually has
if we're just speaking anecdotally from
personal experience like i never used
maker dow because i don't want to over
collateralize
i used ust because i can get so much
more purchasing value with way less
collateral put up right
which is why i think it was so
attractive to begin with now i i do want
to like kind of pull on this thread that
what i thought ust had going for it was
that it was the basis for this
burgeoning ecosystem where there's going
to be all these derivatives and mirrored
assets and protocols building on top of
it building that flywheel now i think
lyrebird kind of pulled a little bit of
those strings
for the recent hackathon you built bauer
bird and bowerbird is a lending protocol
and also another australian bird yeah
which i kind of want to like pull on in
a little bit but what are kind of the
basic principles of bowerbird and how is
a
lyrebird lrb token holder or usd token
holder going to benefit from this new
product that you just recently put
together for the hackathon yeah so it's
a bit of context bowerbird the name
comes from i don't think it's fully an
australian bird it's like like papua
australian bird but yeah they built
these things called bowers which i had
originally confused for nests but
they're not it's kind of a mating ritual
like the males will build the most
beautiful structure that they can and
some sub-species
like they really like the color blue for
some reason so they'll find like blue
bottle caps and put them in their bowers
and stuff but you know i'm trying to
push this narrative of defy on neo is
going to be birds
and
it kind of was a joke in the beginning
it's like a flamingo like that's a bird
but i do think there's value in having
some kind of unified identity so that if
someone see the bird they can think oh
that's probably a neo protocol but yeah
power bird is
pretty much inspired by compound and
anchor the technical details they've
mostly come from the compound model the
only difference is that like it doesn't
have multiple markets for multiple
tokens the lending market really is only
for usdl and that's going to be the
anchor model and so the idea is that you
can put in collateral and right now
we're only looking at binio because
collateral needs to satisfy a couple of
things one is that it has enough market
cap so that it's not super volatile
and right now in the ecosystem i think
neo is the only one hopefully it grows
enough in the next couple of years that
you have enough assets that you could
collateralize
the second is that benio is a yield
earning asset and i think this is really
the key to having high yield protocol
because
if you try to promise high yields people
are going to ask where is that coming
from and if you can explain to them this
is where it comes from then
it makes sense right like people won't
be you know running for the exits when
they feel like when they're drying up
and
like the cool thing about be neo is that
it also kind of like it unless you
explain to people like what meal is and
how you
you can earn gas by voting and so
let's say you deposit binio and your
loan to value is set to let's say 75
minimum which means that people are
probably gonna do more than that set it
at the minimum
the next take let's say five percent and
then you get liquidated you don't want
that and so let's say
for argument's sake most people deposit
200 collateral i think neo yields about
like nine to ten percent in voting gas
and so if you do that and let's say you
were at we do really well and we're
lending up eighty percent of the usd all
that's in the system what that means is
let's say so you have b meal you have
two hundred percent and the eighty
percent of that says 160 percent so
you're earning 160 of nine to ten
percent yields which is pretty high
right like 15
and you know that that's coming from
somewhere because
people are voting and people are getting
the gas and then the protocol can now
convert that gas
into usdl automatically in flamingo and
so
what i really wanted to do was kind of
unify a lot of existing
projects that are on neo
so here we're looking at vimeo hopefully
if people have neo and they can't
collateralize it but then be neo you can
then well like why not convert my neon
to burger neo increase usage there if
we're regularly converting gas yields
into usdl that's increasing the
transaction count flamingo that's
another plus and then finally i think
this is a very good way to try to
increase the yield of the usage of usdl
because i think what people would really
be looking for in a stable coin is where
can i use this
and so
one of the easiest ways to to get this
interest
is by introducing a defy lending
protocol so those are the kind of goals
that we had and we're pretty excited to
see what the judges think of it yeah one
of the interesting things in watching
your video is that it seems like users
can liquidate
those who have taken out loans so is
this something that's going to be
eventually replaced by some sort of
arbitrage bot that does this or is like
joe and sally going to have to scour the
bauer bird loans and look for anything
that
has exceeded its loan to value ratio
because this this also provides kind of
like
almost like a weird antagonistic
zero-sum game for ecosystem participants
right
yeah so
i think the liquidations have to be
automated to some degree and
similar to rp if we could provide
something that kind of looks for under
collateralized loans we will
so
the only thing that's a little bit more
complicated from a technical point of
view here is that liquidations require
oracle calls because you can't just say
hey i'm going to liquidate this because
you need to know at this particular
moment is this position under
collateralized and it could be by the
time you call it and then maybe if the
oracle call comes back and says oh
actually
neil went up one percent so it doesn't
work anymore
then you
shouldn't be able to liquidate that but
yeah one thing that we do need to work
on is trying to basically have a catalog
which loans are at risk of collateral or
being under collateralized and then
making sure that these spots can find
them but i think typically there's kind
of two ways to do it one is just
anyone who finds it on their
collateralized position you basically
send over
the money to liquidate it and then
whoever gets there first you can get the
first chunk and then i think there are
also auction methods in which whenever
there is an undercollateralized position
you open up an auction and say hey like
does anyone want a piece here like
going one's going twice
i thought that the
anyone can kind of come like a vulture
it's an easier model uh one because it's
much easier to automate and two because
i think it's an easier model for like
severe market downtrends that just
happen suddenly so yeah i think similar
to maker dao i think whenever you have
an over collateralized protocol it's
like the over collateral addition is
only good to the extent that let's say
your liquidators i don't know like let's
say they work in like one minute
intervals
if your asset actually crashes like 70
within that one minute interval you are
still at risk because if you are only
200 over collateralized and then it
crashes 70 percent then well suddenly
this liquidator is only paying you know
like not enough to actually get your
collateral ratio back on track and so
those are the reasons what was the name
of the
project in terra was it kajara something
like that it would act as a market for
um people to bid against this uh
soon-to-be liquidated collateral right
and purchase it at a discount and it
sounds like vulture would be a nice bird
name
theme for this to be ported to the neo
ecosystem that's true
does the impacts of
the uncertainty that tara reintroduced
to us as
algo stable coin projects can't have no
matter how big they are does this kind
of put bauer bird's development on hold
are you waiting to hear
feedback from the judges what is kind of
your perspective on this moving forward
do you have to go back to to the
beginning of the of the board and
re-examine liar bird yes i think power
bird will probably continue in its
current form i do think that it's
probably going to be
put on hold until liarberg moves to the
fractional reserve model just because
you know powerbird is meant to bring
more interest and more demand for usdo
which means that we kind of need to make
sure that usdl is
it has a defense mechanism against that
spiral before we do that but in some
sense i
kind of like bear markets not in the way
that people lost money but in the sense
that it gives you a really good time to
build things out
because i think in bull markets people
are always wondering like all of these
other coins are doing so well why are
you not releasing things right away and
people in software development will
always say you need time to make sure
that product is actually good because
you know one of the things that could
happen is that your i guess your
stability model doesn't work as you
expect which seems to be the case with
tara but the other thing that could
happen is you could have a bug and
people could explain it that's actually
much worse
because you could have actually had a
very good model and then it just didn't
work out because
you were not careful enough to implement
the right way and so
nothing really changes in terms of
development
other than that the
it's not 100
for certain but i think usdl is going to
move toward the fractional reserve model
that we talked about today and so
that is really the first priority and
then
our bird is going to be next yeah and i
just kind of want to hammer home again
something that's really cool about the
value prop that
the bauer bird offers is that its yield
is gonna be derived already from a yield
producing product whereas the yield for
ust was derived from
lfg
funding this pool
until the flywheel effects took off
so what are some other ways that you
envision yield being derived beyond just
the gas distributions from the the
underlying benio collateral what are
some other ways that yield will be
derived as time goes on and activity is
increased is it just going to be from
lrb to usdl minting and burning or what
are some other processes you envision oh
you mean for lrb holders or for
bowerbird for bowerbird lenders i
suppose i see so there will be some
interest that is charged to the
borrowers and that's kind of just the
baseline interest
most markets have this kind of model in
which you have this target utilization
ratio which is let's say it's like 80
which
basically means that
if
you
have let's say 100 usdl in reserve in
the protocol you want to be lending out
80 of those at a time the reason why
it's not 100 is because if it's 100 and
then someone wants to pull their deposit
you tell them okay look it's being used
so you can't so you have to have a
secondary market which it probably still
is necessary to have a robust secondary
market for um
redeeming your like usdl which is kind
of like a deposit flip or usdl but you
do want to make sure there's that buffer
so that people can't actually withdraw
and so there will be some kind of
variable rate that is charged to
borrowers and that is given directly to
lenders what i'm most excited by is
other tokens that could have some kind
of yields growing on the neo system as i
mentioned denio's the target right now
because highest market cap and it also
has very stable yields i think flamingo
could be the next one because it's a
little bit more complicated flamingo you
could enter the flood which is
i really like it because like what we've
been talking about the fees don't come
out of like or the api doesn't come out
of thin air it's actually kept from
transaction fees of every pool in
flamingo and so let's say if you could
stake or if you could put your flm as
collateral in the system
it's a little bit more complicated
because
with be nail you just say every time you
want to get gas you say hey give me gas
and then the next block you have your
gas
but with flm there's there's a lot more
going on in terms of how the fees are
generated and compounded and so you
would have something like
let's say 80 of the flm that you have in
reserve goes in the flood so that if
people want to withdraw their collateral
then there's some kind of buffer and
then if it you know let's say people do
that and you get 90
then you kind of want to exit
some amount of your fund to have a
buffer again but i think the fund api
right now is like 100 almost
you could give that to the lenders
that's actually amazing initially the
thought was also to
have
lrp staking be a part of this but i've
been having second thoughts about that
because i think one of the other issues
with usd's downfall is that ust and luna
are very correlated in terms of at least
if they both move downward
and so if your
luna is your collateral and ust is
falling and your luna is being
liquidated it actually accelerates in a
lot of ways to um like the the death
spiral effect
and so
having seen that i think maybe
it's actually not the best idea to have
correlated assets you know your
collateral assets so
probably going to scrap that part but be
neo and flm are definitely in the plans
that was a
kind of wild lesson or scenario to watch
play live where people are dumping their
ust because they don't have faith in it
anymore and that's pushing the price
down and then also the way that ust
worked is that when ust is sold more
luna is created and people are also
selling that right so you had this
depressing of two separate assets that
just it's funny a lot of people were who
were right about tara are being vocal
now and maybe a handful were vocal over
the past year but
this was really like the worst case
scenario that could have ever played out
and uh it played out spectacularly right
so we're kind of wrapping up but i
wanted to pull your ear a little bit on
you mentioned oracle calls and this is
one of the first projects that i think
is
a lot of projects are starting to use
neo's oracles but you have two separate
projects now where you've been pulling
on oracle calls so
how does a native oracle network that's
built through neo what are the pros and
cons to having something that's native
versus a chain link that might have more
functionality but isn't specifically
like native to a chain the biggest
advantage is that anyone can call it
very easily basically you just define a
callback function and say here oracle
query this endpoint and then when you
come back pass that data and then call
this callback and so from a programming
point of view it's very very easy
you do still have to think about how
how expensive it is because oracle calls
are not cheap
and the other part is that it doesn't
necessarily happen right away it's
typically going to be the next block so
you you send a request and then the next
block is going to have a response which
is not necessarily what a lot of people
are familiar with and so you have to
tell them look like we made a call and
then we have to wait
i think with things like chain link
typically the way it happens is that you
kind of set these parameters and then
say either every x minutes or if the
price of this asset changes by more than
next percent you update the data that's
on the chain
and so you are kind of
reliant on this happening for you i
think they're actually
with usd's downfall there was kind of a
issue with i think some oracles either
like no longer reporting prices or
either us termina or being late on the
on the prices and this kind of has to go
like the cross chain issue in which you
have this kind of havoc that's going on
with the main chain and all of these
raft assets are having issues as well i
was actually really hoping to see a
project in the hackathon that basically
does something like chain link in that
instead of having every project have to
call its own
endpoint would be great is if you have
this central service that says well i
say central it's still decentralized but
let's say
someone will keep invoking these calls
for you and you have to kind of
subscribe and keep paying them something
so that they keep maintaining these
endpoints for you
but
um that gives you a lot more a lot more
flexibility and a lot more
decentralization i think because right
now
one of the key centralized parts of
flyer bird is the price feed because
you know it's still maintained by liar
bird and so if someone were to come and
say is that decentralized it's actually
no because you have decentralized oracle
nodes but they're still occurring the
same node whereas i think if you had
this kind of chain link type model you
could make it so that you have multiple
price sources and then you just take the
median or the mean or whatever and then
you could actually say this is
decentralized because it's not a single
price feed you have these
kind of trusted sources
and then you're making sure that let's
say i don't know like do the medium but
take out like the highest and the lowest
or something like that then it becomes a
lot harder for these price fees to cheat
you you know we're not a podcast that
gives financial advice so i can't say go
buy this token or that token but
something i do feel confident in saying
is activating the community to
participate in processes so
you know i'm a hobbyist i don't know how
to code or develop but i want to get
involved in
the lyrebird protocol the way i see that
happening is maybe by launching and
running rb
so could you just share a little bit
more about rb is it for the hobbyist
like can i spin up a bot and start
performing arbitrage does my computer
need to be running 24 7.
uh what kind of like level of expertise
do you have to have in order to download
and run rb which of course helps ensure
that the lyrebird protocol operates
smoothly yeah so
in terms of downloading and running it i
don't think too much expertise is
necessary you do have to be
or you do have to learn how to use the
command line terminal which is standard
on
mac os and linux and on windows i think
i'm actually not sure how it would work
probably powershell the only caveat i
have is that one of the things that you
really want to be careful with is
making your private key secret and so
that's the only part that i would tell
people to try to be really really
careful because rb does need to know
your private key and so
if it does know your private key you
want to make sure that your operating
environment is something that you trust
because otherwise someone else could see
it as well
right now i think it's
like a little bit profitable but not
super profitable and the reason is
because the usdl pool is actually not
super large
about 220k right now
and so
let's say you're trying to keep it
within one percent so like 99 cents to
1.01 if you're moving that on a 220
people versus like a million dollar pool
your expected profits are pretty
different and so right now i think if
you're running it thank you so much
you're probably not going to be seeing
like that much profit but as we see usd
all ramp up then i think it's going to
be a lot more profitable and then we'll
probably see more people join in as well
but yeah i think there is testnet usdl
and lrb available as well it's in one of
the announcements that we have
so that's a very good place to get
started there is also a test that
flamingo link that we have shared
somewhere and so because otherwise
people don't really trade on testnet you
might have to kind of you know make your
own trade and then move the price and
then see it come back to equilibrium
yeah i'm eagerly following along to see
what it is that
i don't want to use the word explode but
shows growth and demand for usdl in the
neo ecosystem
you know i don't know if this is
necessarily like something that liar
bird has to propagate or if this is just
something that naturally comes but i'm
gonna be looking forward to following
along and seeing this organic growth of
usdl so
wrapping up this is the smart economy
podcast so i'm curious to hear your
thoughts on what you think the smart
economy is it's a good question i don't
think there's a right or wrong answer
yeah i think
kind of like how
technology
made a lot of um
like white-collar professions more
efficient i wonder if the smart economy
is something that it doesn't necessarily
do things differently but make things
more efficient i think one of the things
that people like a lot about
decentralized systems is that it gives
access to
everyone instead of just a privileged
few
another thing that i think is probably
for the smart economy is transparency in
the sense that
like right now you get a lot of
protection from institutions like thanks
but
in a way it's really just trust me bro
because we have these reserves
if something goes wrong we'll pay you
back and we do trust some and i think
it's such a big part of the fabric of
our society that we trust these
institutions
but i think
it would be a lot better if we have
systems in place that we can trust and
that they're independently verifiable
and so i don't necessarily think the
smart economy needs to do anything
differently
other than just
make sure that
one is there more efficient especially a
lot of the routine tests that we do that
can be automated and then two is making
sure that that we we rely a little bit
less on just
trust in terms of what people say
and actually verifiable claims that are
on chain i think those are the two
things for me awesome
well
if we look a year into the future and
you're still around i think this is the
times that battle hardened
your project and yourself and your your
unwavering faith in what you're building
so
congrats so far on making it through the
tumultuous storms i think we have a lot
more
of this being a kind of big topic that
people are going to talk about during
terra's postmortem but i'm excited to
continue using and following along
lyrebird and seeing the new products
that you release bowerbird
and testing those out as well so i guess
congrats on surviving so far and i hope
that you're keeping your head up because
this is a product i'm really looking
forward to seeing come to life in the
neo ecosystem
i just think stable coins and lending
and borrowing are the beginning of the
life flow for
l1 these days in d5 in general so
keep your head up i guess
thank you
and thank you for having me this was a
very nice experience
i'm
super honored to have been able to pull
your ear you introduced me to tara and
luna just through the mechanisms that
you were talking about when you first
launched lyrebird sorry about
that
no it's all right um you don't give
financial advice so there's nothing to
be to apologize for but i'm excited to
see how you'll build and iterate because
i'm of the
thought that stable coins algo stable
coins
are one day the way that we get out of
this
kind of
fractionalized and fiat currency-like
system
and that ultimately it's going to be
math that determines the stability of
any future currency but
as was shown with ust we are not there
yet and it's going to continue to take
builders to
script their knees and to iterate and
reiterate so it's really cool to be able
to cover a project working on that for
neonews today so i'm looking forward to
seeing what changes come about and
to continue watching the project
make strides forward so thank you for
coming on uh it was awesome to be able
to catch up with you again thank you for
having me dylan cheers
well what did you think of that
conversation
it was really great to glean insight
from a stablecoin protocol developer and
have an objective conversation about
recent events it's apparent that william
didn't get scared off by the collapse of
ust and the terra ecosystem but went
directly to the drawing board it'll be
interesting to see how lyrebird
implements a fractionally backed system
using other forms of stablecoin as
collateral regarding the upcoming
bowerbird lending protocol it was really
interesting to hear more about the types
of assets that will serve as collateral
for loans
and the criteria that they must generate
yield themselves so i want to thank you
so much for taking the time to listen to
the smart economy podcast
if you liked what you heard and want to
support the show
please keep neo news today in mind when
voting for your neo council
representative as part of neo's
governance process
we appreciate you and we look forward to
catching you next time
you